\input texinfo
@setfilename manual
@settitle SmartCalc_v1.0 manual
@documentencoding UTF-8

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2023 geniezan
@end copying

@titlepage
@title SmartCalc_v1.0
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@node Top
@top SmartCalc_v1.0 manual

This is a short SmartCalc_v1.0 manual.

@menu
* General information::    This section provides general information about the calculator.
* Arithmetic operations::  This section provides the list of implemented arithmetic operations.
* Mathematical functions:: This section provides the list of implemented mathematical functions.
* Plots::  This section provides information about the possibility of plotting functions.
@end menu

@node General information
@chapter General information

@itemize @bullet
@item
The calculator is developed in the C/C++ programming language using the QT version 6.2.
@item
The program calculates arbitrary bracketed arithmetic expressions in infix notation.
@item
The program calculates arbitrary bracketed arithmetic expressions in infix notation with substitution of the value of the variable x as a number.
@item
Both integers and real numbers with a dot can be input into the program.
@item
The calculation in done done after you complete entering the calculating expression and press the = symbol.
@item
Users can enter up to 255 characters.
@item
Verifiable accuracy of the fractional part is at least to 7 decimal places.
@end itemize

@node  Arithmetic operations
@chapter  Arithmetic operations
Bracketed arithmetic expressions in infix notation support the following arithmetic operations:
@multitable @columnfractions .6 .4
@headitem Operator name @tab Infix notation
@item Brackets @tab (a + b)
@item Addition @tab a + b
@item Subtraction @tab a - b 
@item Multiplication @tab a * b
@item Division  @tab a / b
@item Power  @tab a ^ b
@item Modulus  @tab a mod b
@item Unary plus  @tab +a
@item Unary minus  @tab -a
@end multitable

@node Mathematical functions
@chapter Mathematical functions

Bracketed arithmetic expressions in infix notation support the following mathematical functions:
@multitable @columnfractions .3 .7
@headitem Function @tab Function description
@item cos(x) 
@tab Computes cosine
@item sin(x)
@tab Computes sine
@item tan(x)
@tab Computes tangent
@item acos(x)
@tab Computes arc cosine
@item asin(x)
@tab Computes arc sine
@item atan(x)
@tab Computes arc tangent 
@item sqrt(x)
@tab Computes square root
@item ln(x)
@tab Computes natural logarithm
@item log(x)
@tab Computes common logarithm
@end multitable

@node Plots
@chapter Plots
@itemize @bullet
@item
The program can plot a graph of a function given by an expression in infix notation with the variable x (or without it).
@item
To plot a graph of a function a user must check the checkbox "graph" and press the = symbol.
@item
The displayed domain and codomain if [-10, 10] by default, but a user can additionally specify them.
@item
Domain and codomain of a function are limited to numbers from -1000000 to 1000000
@item
The calculation in done done after you complete entering the calculating expression and press the = symbol.
@item
Users have opportunity to autoset the displayed codomain with min and max of a given function if they exist but within [-1000000, 1000000].
@end itemize

@bye